# Tips for making good questions

## How many questions?
I've found that about 20 questions make for a good and engaging gameplay. Right now, the software *requires* exactly 19 questions. I make about 4 survey questions, about 5 props, about 3 questions about details printed on players' badges, and the remaining 7 questions are about details that I already know about the players. Feel free to change the distribution, though.
After solving the 19 regular questions, you will have to put up a special question 20 that instructs players to share tokens with each other, and a final question 21 to scan the last prop.

## What type of game questions should I write?
The best questions are those based on details that you already know or can find out about the players. Everyone is usually pleasantly surprised to find a question about themselves.

## What type of survey questions should I write?
When writing a survey question, be straightforward. Pick a topic that has a reasonable chance to get both positive and negative responses from your players, like "Do you like the color violet?", or "Do you have a pet?". When writing a game question that references the survey question, add a bit of trickery so that people have to think about it. For example, for the previous two survey questions, a corresponding game question could be "Find someone who feels pleased by the hues of lilac and lavender", and "Find someone who has a creature who lives in their place rent-free".

## What are the details printed on the players' badges?
In the badges generated by the game, each player is given a little playing card icon. The icons have a card number (rank) and a card suit. You can choose to create some game questions based on this detail, like "Find someone who has a Jack printed on their badge". Make sure to check before the game that someone has indeed been allocated a Jack, and that player is attending the game. You can -- of course -- customize this further. You could, for example, change the logo on some of the people's badges, or customize the badge by adding some annotation or mark on the reverse side.

## How do I make the game engaging?
One idea is to tie all the questions together with some kind of a story. If you're using metals, try to weave them into the story. Another idea is to make sure the question types are well-distributed. Have a couple of questions directly about some players, then one question referencing a prop, then maybe a question based on a survey question, and so forth.

## How do I choose props?
Think of the area where you will be playing the game, and whether you will have the opportunity to place some props there. If you think you can place or find 5 props, think of clues pointing to those items, and prepare those questions in some document.

## What if I want to make it a purely props-based game?
In that case, put some dummy question in your survey questions box, something like "Are you ready to play the game?". In the questions box, you can put regular questions, all of type USERNAME_LIST, and each referring to some prop's tag.

## Navigation
 * Previous page: [Setting up your questions](setting-questions.md)
 * Next page: [A Checklist](checklist.md)